---
layout: post
title: Welcome!
comments: true
---

I have read many interesting blogs about data and statistics. They are short, fun, and sometimes teach me things that are directly applicable. So I started asking myself: can I start one too?

My first instinct was I probably shouldn't, mainly because I haven't come up with any good topics to write about. I'm neither a statistician nor a computer scientist, and I've spent most of my past studying / doing physics. Even though I do analyze data, I've never systematically written about statistics or computing.

But maybe I don't have to. There is this awesome excuse called "data science" that anyone can use whenever they want to talk just a bit about statistics, a bit about computing, and a little bit about science.

I've managed to rebrand myself as a data scientist more than a year ago and I still have mixed feeling about it. It's mainly because the name is not very informative. It ranges from conducting business analytics all the way to building complex machine learning systems (I do not mean the latter is superior but rather they require very different skill sets).

I believe data science is mainly about "science". A lot of people are afraid of science because it reminds them months or even years of studies leading to a "perfect" solution that has no practical usage. I think this view is wrong (well, it can be right from time to time but at least biased). Good science should give simple and robust solutions, can have quick and useful impact, and questions the reasons and assumptions of things.

I still haven't decided where to start and how long I can hold on to it. But I've shaken off some of the pressures that prevent me from starting. I will write a little bit of science and problems that have been or can be solved by data, as I'm learning along the way.
